Stir the sugar and yeast into the warm milk and let it rest for 10 minutes until frothy. In a large mixing bowl or the bowl of a stand mixer combine the flour and salt.

Add the liquid to the flour mixture and stir/knead until a thick dough forms. If using a stand mixer, use the paddle attachment and beat the mixture for about 3 minutes until a thick dough forms. Cover the bowl loosely with plastic wrap and set it in a warm place for an hour to let the dough rise.

Dissolve the baking soda in the warm water and add it to the dough. If using a stand mixer, beat the batter for a minute or two. Or use an electric mixer to beat the batter. If some small lumps remain that's okay. Any remaining lumps will dissolve during the next resting stage.

Cover the batter and let it rest in a warm place for at least 30 minutes (see note below). After 30 minutes the batter should be nice and bubbly.

Prepare the crumpet rings by oiling the inside of each rim. (I use and like Norpro's English Muffin/Crumpet Rings.) Lightly oil the frying pan. You can use a regular skillet or a cast iron pan (my preference for even heating).  I use my Lodge 12" Cast Iron Pan.

Place the rings in the frying pan over medium-high heat. 

Once the rings are hot, pour the batter into each ring until it's slightly more than half full. Cooking time will vary depending on your stovetop and frying pan but these will cook for roughly 5 minutes. The batter will begin to rise and bubble on top. After several minutes when the tops are cooked and the classic pores/holes are present with the bottoms lightly browned, your crumpets are done. Note: You can either remove the rings and flip the crumpets over to cook the other side for another minute or two until golden or remove them from the rings and toast the crumpets. (See blog post for more info on this.)

Serve the crumpets immediately slathered with butter, jam, golden syrup or honey. To reheat later toast them in the toaster. Can also be frozen, thaw first before toasting.  (Crumpets are eaten whole/open-faced and are not sliced in half horizontally.)

NOTE:  Regarding how long to let the batter sit before using:  It's ready after 30 minutes but letting it rest a bit longer will give you an even higher rise and a lighter texture (see blog post for side-by-side comparison pics). Try both and see which you prefer. Both are excellent.